As computers are being used more and more in education, there will be soon no role for teachers in the classroom. Do you agree or disagree?
There is no doubt that education and the process of learning has changed since the introduction of computers. The search for information has become easier and more entertaining, and connectivity has expedited the availability of data. Though experts systems have made computers more intelligent, they have not yet become a substitute for the human interaction in the learning process. In my opinion, what can be expected is a change in the teachers’ role, but not their disappearance from the classroom.
Nobody can argue with the fact that the acquisition of knowledge is more fun and easier with computers. The mere activity of touching and exploring this device constitutes an enjoyable task for a child. This, accompanied by a relaxing attitude and interactivity of software, usually contributes to a better grasping of new knowledge. At a higher educational level the availability of digital books, simulators and other academic materials provides the student with an ever accessible source of information, that otherwise would not be at hand.
But, besides the increasing complexity and behavior of intelligent software, which is usually embedded in the academic digital material, the need for human interaction in the learning process will always be present, at least in the foreseeable future. There is the necessity for a human being to be able to determine what the specifics needs of each individual are. The expertise of a teacher in how to explain and adapt complex concepts to different individuals can hardly be mimicked by a computer, no matter how sophisticated its software is.
As computers are becoming a common tool for teaching, teachers should be more aware of their role as guides in the acquisition of knowledge rather than transmitters of facts. They have to be receptive to the changes that are taking places, keep updated and serve as problem solvers in the learning process, thus allowing students to discover the fact for themselves.
To summarize, in my personal view, teachers play and will continue to play an important role in the classroom, especially at the primary school level. No matter how capable computers become, there will be no replacement for human interaction, but in the way haw this interaction takes place.
